HTTP Priority header (#34399)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/priority/index.md

The server is not bound by the client prioritization, and might use the client request as just one input to its own prioritization process.
For example, a server may have specific knowledge that a particular image is vitally important for the best user experience, and therefore should be sent at highest priority.
Server prioritization might also be affected by factors such as network congestion.

This request may be cached, and the server is expected to control the cacheability or the applicability of the cached response using the header fields that control the caching behavior, such as {{HTTPHeader("Cache-Control")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Vary")}}.

The server may also include this header in responses in order to indicate it has an interest in changing the prioritization.
This information can then be used as an input to the prioritization process for caching servers and other servers that are forwarding the response.

> > **Note:** This header is just one part of the "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" defined in {{rfc("9218")}}.
> > There are also HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 `PRIORITY_UPDATE` frames that can be used to re-prioritize a resource request after it has been sent. <!-- also the setting to turn off the HTTP2 scheme -->

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This header is just one part of the "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" defined in {{rfc("9218")}}.
> There are also HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 `PRIORITY_UPDATE` frames that can be used to re-prioritize a resource request after it has been sent.
> The request can be sent in any HTTP version.
```

---
title: Priority
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Priority
page-type: http-header
browser-compat: http.headers.Priority
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

> The **`Priority`** HTTP header in sent in requests to indicate a client's preference for the priority order at which the response containing the requested resource should be sent, relative to other resource requests on the same connection. If the header is not specified in the request, a default priority is assumed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Priority`** HTTP header is sent in requests to indicate a client's preference for the priority order at which the response containing the requested resource should be sent, relative to other resource requests on the same connection. If the header is not specified in the request, a default priority is assumed.
```

> The server is not bound by the client prioritization, and might use the client request as just one input to its own prioritization process.
> For example, a server may have specific knowledge that a particular image is vitally important for the best user experience, and therefore should be sent at highest priority.

Reviewer: Minor reword to simplify a little if you like it:

```suggestion
The server is not bound by client prioritization and might only use client requests as hints for its own prioritization process.
For example, a server may know that a specific image is vital for user experience and should be sent at the highest priority.
```

Server prioritization might also be affected by factors such as network congestion.

This request may be cached, and the server is expected to control the cacheability or the applicability of the cached response using the header fields that control the caching behavior, such as {{HTTPHeader("Cache-Control")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Vary")}}.

The server may also include this header in responses in order to indicate it has an interest in changing the prioritization.
This information can then be used as an input to the prioritization process for caching servers and other servers that are forwarding the response.

> > **Note:** This header is just one part of the "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" defined in {{rfc("9218")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This header is one part of the "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" defined in {{rfc("9218")}}.
```

> There are also HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 `PRIORITY_UPDATE` frames that can be used to re-prioritize a resource request after it has been sent.
> The request can be sent in any HTTP version.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Request header")}},
        {{Glossary("Response header")}}
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>no</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Priority: u=<priority>
Priority: i
Priority: u=<priority>, i
```

## Directives

- `u=<priority>`

  - : The "urgency" (`u`) parameter specifies a priority value `<priority>` for the resource.

>     The value is an integer between 0 and 7 inclusive, in descending order of priority.

Reviewer: Although I get it, I'm pre-empting some questions here on this :)

```suggestion
    The value is an integer between 0 and 7 inclusive, in descending order of priority (with 0 meaning highest and 7 meaning lowest urgency).
```

Author: I guess it is worth saying. Slight simplification.

```suggestion
    The value is an integer between 0 and 7 inclusive, in descending order of priority (0 is the highest urgency).
```

    The default priority value for requests is 3.
    There is no default priority value for responses: the absence of the header in a response indicates that the server has chosen not to modify the client priority.

>     A priority of 7 should only be used for resources that are unlikely to affect the user experience.

Reviewer: Spec says background tasks, which I think is a good example:

```suggestion
    A priority of 7 should only be used for resources that are unlikely to affect the user experience such as background tasks or delivery of software updates.
```

- `i`

  - : The incremental (`i`) directive, if present, indicates than an HTTP response can be processed incrementally.

    Resources that can be processed incrementally are those where the recipient can potentially do something useful as soon as a chunk arrives, rather than waiting for the complete resource to be available.

    If a browser sets this directive then the server may choose to concurrently serve all incremental requests with the same urgency.
    This distributes the multiple requests across the connection bandwidth, with the result that all the requests start being processed earlier, but take longer in total to complete.

    If the browser does not set this directive then it is indicating that it will not process the resource incrementally.
    Servers should in this case send responses with the same urgency one by one, in the order in which their associated requests were generated.

> **Note:** Servers are expected to ignore directives on this header that they do not understand.
> New directives that are added in future are expected to be compatible with these existing directives so that they can be safely ignored.

## Examples

> ### Setting the urgency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting resource urgency
```

The following example shows a request for an HTML file.
The urgency isn't set, and so defaults to 3, with `i` being false.
This is the normal setting for a document that owns other resources.

```http
:method = GET
:scheme = https
:authority = example.net
:path = /index.html
```

> The HTTP below request below a possible follow on request for a CSS file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request below is a possible follow-on request for a CSS file related to the HTML index.
```

The urgency is set to 2, indicating that the browser considers it to be quite high priority, but `i` is unset because the CSS file can't be handled incrementally.

> ```http

Author: Note, I chose to use the HTTP/2 spec human readable format here. We should consider moving to it in future. Main reason though is that even though this can be used in HTTP/1.1 the main benefits come in HTTP/2 and 3. Also the spec uses it :-)

Reviewer: We don't have as nice syntax highlighting, but let's look at that again at some point. We might have the option for extending the block language as `http2` or something.

Author: For sure. Apparently it isn't too hard to extend with regexp.

:method = GET
:scheme = https
:authority = example.net
:path = /style.css
priority = u=2
```

> **Note:** The requests above use the human-readable format from the HTTP/2 or HTTP/3 specifications.
> The HTTP/1.1 format used in most of this documentation would be something like:
>
> ```http
> GET /style.css HTTP/1.1
> Host: example.net
> Priority: u=2
> ```

A response might look as shown below.
Note that in this case the `priority` is not specified, indicating that the server did not feel that it needed to change the priority for intermediate servers.

```http
:status: 200
content-type: text/css
content-length: 610
date: [current date]
```

### Setting the incremental directive

The header below shows a browser request for an image that can be rendered incrementally.

> In this case the priority is set lower than the default (4) and `i` is set to indicate that the JPG file can be processed incrementally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the priority is set to 4 (lower than the default of 3), and `i` is set to indicate that the client can process the JPG file incrementally.
```
